Introduction
     My project proposal is for an XCB Objective-C language binding.  Its main focus would be to wrap the XCB API around an Object-Oriented abstraction so that Objective-C programs can use XCB more easily.  Although Objective-C can call C functions directly, so no low-level wrapping is needed, the high-level wrapping of XCB concepts into an Object-Oriented system will prove challenging.  

     I have prepared a sample implementation, which is included in the Links to Further information,  which implements the basics, such as Connecting to an X server and creating and mapping a window.  So far, I feel that I have made good progress, but I have hit a few problems, such as how to best make an interface to the event system.  Starting on the sample implementation has given me a good feel for XCB, the XCB API, and how it works, since I was unfamiliar with it before, and what I will be up against as I continue on the project.  I intend for the finished product to make available all of the core XCB API by completing the sample code, have an exhaustive test application, and have documentation generated by Doxygen.  

Implementation
     I have access to two different Linux systems and a Mac with OS X on which to test.  I could continue to host the project on Berlios, unless another hosting method is preferred.

Schedule
1.Implementation(6-7 weeks) - Continue work based on the sample implementation on wrapping the API into Objective-C.
2.Documentation(2 weeks) - Fully document the resulting API.
3.Testing(2 weeks) - Test the bindings on the computers available to me, especially the Mac, to make sure they work correctly and compile cleanly.

Deliverables
-Objective-C bindings to the full XCB API
-Full documentation of the resulting bindings.
-Weekly progress updates for the duration of the project.

Bio and Additional Information

     If selected, I have a personal website at http://thisnukes4u.net which I would update at least weekly as a sort of progress journal, I would be available on IRC during the week, and my email address is thisnukes4u@gmail.com  I am of course willing to accomodate any changes/suggestions/comments that you may have for this proposal.  I know that it will be a challenge to complete all of this in the little time that is allotted, but I feel that I am up to the challenge, and that this is a worthwhile project to pursue.

     I am an eighteen year old student who will graduate from High School on June third and begin attending New Mexico Tech(http://www.nmt.edu) in August.  I have taken Computer Science classes all four years of High School, and have been working on my own software projects for almost all of that time, ranging from the trivial to some more complex undertakings.  I know five different programming languages, C, C++, Objective-C, Perl, and Java, two that I learned in classes, three of which I taught myself. 


Thank you for considering my project proposal.